GAP TRANSCRIPT — seat hold-apart ⿻ (xor) · LEGACY mode (no salt supplied) · 2026-08-18
Instance: C:/Users/mitch/dtgwg-cred-spec-main_mage/spec_harness · run r1/r1.1 · proposal p2-restructure-telegraphic-tables

1. SERIALIZATION. The proposal artifact was taken EXACTLY as given in the seat prompt and canonically serialized: JSON, recursive lexicographically sorted keys at every level, no whitespace, raw UTF-8 (no ASCII escaping of non-ASCII characters), no trailing newline. Top-level key order after sort: compressedText, expectedMetric, hardConstraintNote, killedLeverCitations, lens, leverId, rationale, title. The exact bytes hashed are persisted at runs/r1/r1.1/p2-restructure-telegraphic-tables/proposal_canon.json (9318 bytes).

2. SEED. Command run (Git Bash, in the proposal scratch dir):
   sha256sum proposal_canon.json
   => 7175b373710bc8974bfd03fdba0d4ce3723df72cce87b48a9c4f0a4829dfa808
   seedHex = 7175b373710bc8974bfd03fdba0d4ce3723df72cce87b48a9c4f0a4829dfa808
   Anyone may re-derive: sha256sum of the persisted file must equal seedHex or the round is void.

3. DRAW RULE (printed per seat card). This instance's gate is a CENSUS (frontier.json objective.gate: census over the frozen 40-fact list, every fact probed, 40/40 or the round is zero — T5). Draw rule: take census.json (frozen, N=40, keystone-enumerated 2026-08-18) and probe EVERY fact F1..F40 in id order — deterministic, exhaustive, without replacement, no sampling and hence no seed-dependent selection. The seed's role in census mode is binding, not selection: it ties this witness set to these exact proposal bytes, so a revised proposal is a new artifact and re-derives (GR-4). drawIndices = [1..40]. No witness was suggested by, seen by, or influenced by the proposer; the proposer states it did not read census.json, and this seat drew from the frozen census file only.

4. WITNESS QUESTIONS — one comprehension question per fact, answerable from the compressed text ALONE; the expected answer quotes the census fact (verbatim, after EXPECTED:). The assay seat must find each answer derivable from the candidate text with no other source.

Q1 (F1): Under the ceremony's rule, what earns access, and what does not? EXPECTED: The rule: access is earned by understanding, not credential.
Q2 (F2): Quote the lintel in full. EXPECTED: The lintel: a trust that certifies itself is the one you cannot trust — trust, like truth, always waits on a witness from beyond the system that holds it.
Q3 (F3): What must never be self-issued about the seal, what kinds of outside things may attest, and what must the attester not become? EXPECTED: The seal is never self-issued: something outside the two parties — a witness artifact, a broker, an externally-anchored record — must be able to attest the ceremony happened, without becoming the authority for what it means.
Q4 (F4): Name the ceremony's state machine per participant: how many states, in what order? EXPECTED: The ceremony is a per-participant state machine of five states: unresolved → resolved → handshook → exchanged → sealed.
Q5 (F5): What two structural properties do the states have? EXPECTED: The states are monotone, with no skips.
Q6 (F6): Which prior shape does the state machine borrow, and at which point? EXPECTED: The state-machine shape borrows the Game-of-42 TRUST-PROTOCOL group-seal shape at p=sealed.
Q7 (F7): In the unresolved → resolved transition, who does what with the address, and what is the contrast pair? EXPECTED: unresolved → resolved is naming: the joining agent OFFERS its address — consent, not scan.
Q8 (F8): How does the host resolve the offered address, and what must it never use? EXPECTED: The host resolves the offered address deterministically with a carried resolver, never venue mDNS.
Q9 (F9): How many names per instance, and what is everything else? EXPECTED: One name per instance; everything else is a path.
Q10 (F10): What is worse than a name that never resolves, and what case is the proof? EXPECTED: A name that resolves sometimes is worse than never — the david.local case is the proof.
Q11 (F11): In resolved → handshook, what constitutes the handshake, and where does understanding begin (and where not)? EXPECTED: resolved → handshook is the gateway page: the agent is pointed at a gateway document stating the room's terms, and reading it is the handshake — understanding begins there, not at a login form.
Q12 (F12): How does the front door treat near-misses? EXPECTED: The front door serves a catch-all so near-misses degrade soft (302 to the gateway), never hard-fail.
Q13 (F13): In handshook → exchanged, what does the agent do, and what is the contrast pair? EXPECTED: handshook → exchanged is understanding demonstrated: the agent answers from the gateway's content — comprehension, not copy.
Q14 (F14): The exchange is the same primitive as which two existing mechanisms, and in which form? EXPECTED: The exchange is the same primitive as the Gatehouse understanding challenge and the sigil-gate proverb, in its consent-first peer form.
Q15 (F15): In exchanged → sealed, what exactly is the seal — which standard, how many parties, between whom? EXPECTED: exchanged → sealed is the agreement: the seal is a bilateral MyTerms (IEEE Std 7012-2025) agreement, strictly two-party, First Person ↔ Second Party.
Q16 (F16): What are agents, devices, and credentials relative to the agreement? EXPECTED: Agents, devices, and credentials are the fabric around the agreement, never parties to it.
Q17 (F17): Who proposes the terms, from what, and what is that pattern called? EXPECTED: The individual PROPOSES terms from a standard roster — the acceptance-before-proposal invitation pattern.
Q18 (F18): Name the three registers that stay in correspondence, with their qualifiers. EXPECTED: Three registers stay in correspondence: plain language, legal (Customer Commons canonical), and machine-readable (JSON-LD / W3C DPV).
Q19 (F19): What is sealed → graduated access called, and what two properties does the access have? EXPECTED: sealed → graduated access is the cookie jar: access is host-scoped and MEDIATED.
Q20 (F20): Who holds the raw credential, what is issued instead, and what does the agent never see? EXPECTED: A broker holds the raw credential and issues delegated, scoped grants; the agent never sees the underlying secret (the existing cookie-broker, re-aimed).
Q21 (F21): As a Trust Task, what is each transition? EXPECTED: Each transition is one finite unit of verifiable inter-party work with a natural envelope mapping.
Q22 (F22): Which existing registry task is precisely the broker move of step 5, and what is its one-line description? EXPECTED: The registry's vault/proxy-login — exercise a credential without releasing it — is precisely the broker move of step 5.
Q23 (F23): What does exposure.discloses distinguish? EXPECTED: exposure.discloses distinguishes a session outcome from released secret material.
Q24 (F24): Is the candidate slug family claimed, and what is the registry.json collision status as of which date? EXPECTED: The candidate family is NOT claimed, and there are no collisions in registry.json as of 2026-07-18.
Q25 (F25): Give the full row for understanding/offer: issuer → recipient, sideEffects, exposure. EXPECTED: understanding/offer: joining agent → host; sideEffects none; exposure metadata (the offered address).
Q26 (F26): Give the full row for understanding/gateway: issuer → recipient, sideEffects, exposure. EXPECTED: understanding/gateway: host → joining agent; sideEffects none; exposure metadata (the terms document ref).
Q27 (F27): Give the full row for understanding/exchange: issuer → recipient, sideEffects, exposure. EXPECTED: understanding/exchange: joining agent → host; sideEffects mutating; exposure metadata (answers; scored).
Q28 (F28): Give the full row for understanding/seal: parties, sideEffects, exposure. EXPECTED: understanding/seal: both parties (bilateral); sideEffects mutating; exposure metadata (the 7012 agreement ref).
Q29 (F29): Give the full row for understanding/grant, including the actsAsSubject flag. EXPECTED: understanding/grant: host/broker → joining agent; sideEffects mutating; exposure secret (scoped delegated grant) with actsAsSubject: false.
Q30 (F30): List all five named rejections carried as error codes. EXPECTED: Five named rejections are carried as error codes: name-resolves-sometimes, copy-not-comprehension, self-issued-seal, grant-without-seal, raw-credential-requested.
Q31 (F31): What does the error code name-resolves-sometimes mean operationally? EXPECTED: name-resolves-sometimes means intermittent resolution is a refusal, not a retry.
Q32 (F32): Characterize the agent-admission/* variant: its posture and its five listed elements. EXPECTED: agent-admission/* is the SUPERVISED variant: a regulator/supervisor gate, the two-gate rule (human approval AND understanding), derived scope, bilateral VRC, audit chain.
Q33 (F33): Characterize the understanding/* variant: its posture and its listed contrasts. EXPECTED: understanding/* is the CONSENT-FIRST PEER variant: no supervisor; the host's terms and the joiner's proposal meet as equals under 7012; the seal is an agreement, not a credential; scope is a brokered grant, not a deployment manifest.
Q34 (F34): State the convergence claim about VRCs. EXPECTED: The convergence claim: VRCs measure relationship fidelity FROM OUTSIDE the agreement — the Gödel witness.
Q35 (F35): What does a mature ecosystem use, and what wall is being described from which side? EXPECTED: A mature ecosystem uses both: the agreement inside, the credential outside, neither substituting for the other — the credential/artifact wall seen from the agreement side.
Q36 (F36): Hardening item 1 — what is pinned, deciding what, and how is the agreement referenced from understanding/seal? EXPECTED: Hardening item 1 — seal format: pin the machine-readable register (which roster, which DPV terms, the agreement referenced from understanding/seal by digest — same-bytes-same-hash).
Q37 (F37): Hardening item 2 — which mechanism ports from the admission ceremony, drawing criteria from what, and removing which vector? EXPECTED: Hardening item 2 — understanding scoring: the witness-draw mechanism (criteria drawn from the hash of the joiner's own submission) ports from the admission ceremony and removes the grooming vector.
Q38 (F38): Hardening item 3 — how abstractly must the grant-mediation pattern be stated, and what two things must read as instances of it? EXPECTED: Hardening item 3 — broker generalisation: state the grant-mediation pattern abstractly enough that vault/proxy-login reads as one instance of it and the cookie jar as another.
Q39 (F39): Hardening item 4 — what becomes normative text, and which two 502 lessons become MUSTs? EXPECTED: Hardening item 4 — the state machine as normative text: five states, monotone, with the two 502 lessons (soft-degrade front door; intermittent resolution is a refusal) as MUSTs.
Q40 (F40): Hardening item 5 — what stays OUT of the upstream note, why, and what must never be canonised? EXPECTED: Hardening item 5 — the naming contract stays OUT of the upstream note: per-instance naming is a posture, not an interop requirement; do not canonise mage.mesh anywhere, including upstream.

5. RE-DERIVATION. A third party with no access to this session: (a) sha256sum proposal_canon.json — must equal seedHex; (b) open census.json — the draw is its full id list F1..F40 in order (census mode, exhaustive); (c) the questions above are the witness set. No advisory comment on the proposal's merits is made or implied (seat hard rule).